
We describe a method for recovering the 3D shape of dynamic deforming objects in video, for example this stock footage of a dog on the beach.

We have just one viewpoint, so this is a hard problem, but a solution would mean we could hope to recover 3D from any of the billions of hours of footage that are already out there.

Our method begins from a template mesh which is adapted to the individual video.   The mesh doesn't have to be very accurate, as you can see here.



The user segments the object from the background (we used Adobe's RotoBrush) and tracks some keypoints on the object.   

Notice that for this dog, and for many other animals, you can get only a few reliable keypoints.

Our algorithm then deforms the 3D template to fit the silhouette and point tracks, via a large energy minimization, giving the 3D shape you see here.  

The shapes still have the somewhat blobby form of the template, but match the dog pretty accurately and capture the dynamic motion without oversmoothing.



Two key innovations allow the energy minimization to find good solutions to this problem.   First, in addition to the 3D shape per frame, we parameterize a _Core_ shape which adapts the template to the specific sequence.  

Here we can see the core shape evolving over the optimization iterations.


Second, we allow the user to mark up regions on the template which have similar motion characteristics.   

If we look back at the dog template, you can see that it is segmented into regions:

All the legs are one colour, indicating that they share a rotation axis, 

and the head is another colour indicating that its motion is largely rigid.   

The paper has much more detail on this.



Let's look at another example: a leaping Impala.
Again we supply a template, and extract the silhouettes and point tracks.   In this case a reasonable model of the motion is extracted.   The rightmost column shows one of the key components of the minimization: estimation of the contour generator indicated by the red spheres.  

Only the points visited by the contour generator get information from the image silhouettes, indicating how important it is to have good motion and structure priors for this problem.


This fish is a relatively easy example, but is interesting because it shows that both smooth contours and creases are handled by our model.

Finally we look at some alternatives.   This is the dog sequence, but without the motion markup on the template mesh.   The general ARAP, or "as rigid as possible"-prior is insufficient to give a good solution for this sequence.


